---
layout: post
---

Mallorca

Esmeralda Carcia.
Santa Catalina.
Playa de Espanya.
Market.
Santuar de le Mare.
Fundaero Juan.
Cathedral ( at the back is a beautiful promenade ).
Las Olas - Tapas / Esteria Bier ( Draught Bier ).
Place der Marque der Palmer.
Cuava de Draca.
Cala Millor.
Cala Ratjada.

MietAuto - 102,60
GEbühr - 71
Sa Caloba - 2,70
Soller ( Hostel ) - 30,00
Parken ( Deia ) - 0,50
Hostel Citrix - 30,00
Cala Ratjada - 28,20


palma - cala millor - cala ratjada - alcudia - cap tormentor - sa colabra - soller - valdemossa - palma ! 3 more days to finish the dream trip !

-----------


Milano

i went to Milano for the weekend with the test car and was great.
ich war in living, Desse, bhangra bar, atomic bar


-----------


Mumbai

Saturday:


Not just Jazz by the way
Haji Ali Dargah
Marine Drive
Gateway of India
Lunch - Palladium
AIR Lounge Bar
Colaba
Mukesh Ambanis Haus
Lata Mangeshkar

Sunday:
Worli See Jogging
Linking Road
Bandra Stand
Badra Fort

--------------

Paris

Travel to Paris mit Liane, Birgit, Adrien, Julia, Fabien.

We started out journey yesterday from Esslingen to Paris via KA, Saarsbrücke, Paris.
There was a lot of oll bridges in between. We had to fill our tank two times. Te auto in which we were travelling was
Renault Clio.

We left Esslingen at 06:30 PM and reached by 02:30 AM. There was enormous amount of Traffic before KA on A8 but later it was a pretty free road.

Vomadome was one of the most famous street in Paris. Nightlife was very nice. We went to MAXIM and the THE SHELL disco theque. The weather
Was a little bit warm and one must wear a jacket atleast.
What we saw in Paris:
The address where we were living was 4 BIS RUE de Chatteaudun ( Cadet )
Shop - Frauprix.
Moulin Rouge
Pub of the Anelie Roulain Movie
Place des Abbesses
Pace du Tertre
View of Montmartre
Church of the Saere Coeur
Clothes Shop
Mivht Club - Folies Pigalle on the place Pigalle
Sexodrome
Meeting Point
Kebab at the Pip Burer
Metro : live 2 Anvers -> Charles de Gualle
Celebration of the Grave of the unknown soldier.
Unter the arc of Trionphe
Avenue des Champs Elysses.
Champs Elysees
 - Peugeot Avenue
 - Louis Vuittone Store

The paris metro is beautiful, with lots of architeture. It looks old and artistic.

From Fabian place to Maxim, Madame.
Paris is the city with narrow streets un and down, ver very rich apartment on every building you will see a little bit of art.

River Seine.

Bjork - homogenie
Fabien.coura@wanadoo.fr

Night Life in Paris.

The buses were absolutely full, no space to sit down at 03 40 am i nthe morning. Paris ) France ) is very much like India.
The girls look very similar. Typical is black hair, fair skin but the eye colour is different. Most of them are light brown.
Germany is really different where you find mostly blondes.
We took No2 back to Pigalle and walked down till home.
Notre Dme de Loretto bis Montparnesse Bienvenue.

Passage Verdeau
Passage Jouffroy
Passage Des Panoramas
Palais de La Bourse ( Börse )

Arts Et Metiers
Rambuteau

Modern Art Musuem
Centre Georges Pompidon
Store with pictures
Town Hall - Maiirie de Paris
We crossed the Seine
Notre dame de Paris ( Church ) wieder Fluß überqueren.

M7 Chaterelt
Plase Monge
Mosque
Rue Moufetard
Pantheorn
Universities and local rauhaus
Photos Exhibition in the Jarin de Luxembourg.
RERB - Luxembourg ( Suburbs tram ) -> St. Michael
RERS - St. Richel
Champ de Mars Tour Eiffel
Tour Eiffel
RER Invalid
M8 - Concorde
12 Notredome Pettrotta ( Home )

--------------

Peru

Peru Abend


 ! lot of things learnt.. written inside the paper !

Maccu Piccu - altitude of more than 2000 m
Pizzaro
Cuzzico - former capital
Gold - kinst beruehmt
Laufen - Nachricht schicken
1824 - Independence
Aluminum, Kupfe, Blei - Mineral resources
Spanisch, Oketschna, Amara - 3 offiziel sprache
Sendero Luminoso - leuchtende Pfad - Gueirilla krieg ( 80 and90 )
Fujimoro - 90 - 2000 fled to Japan
Alpaca - LLama
Ara, Hornschnabel, Tuccan - 3 birds
Condor - King of Andes
TiticacaSee - hoechstens See
Bolivien + Peru - BEgrenzung auf See mit laender
SChiff , Rohs - zwei material - INCA ruedern
27.5 Mio Einwohner - Peru
Oeberflaeche - Deutschland mal 3.5 ( 285,000 Sq m )
Alacama - Wueste

february Carnical
Colea CAnyon - deepest canyon of the world
Amazonas -
Moyobamba
Huaraz - schwer Berg
Alpaka, Vikunja, LLama - Animals
Calleo

------------


Bangalore

Pizza hut
Barista 80 ft
Coffeeday, Jayanagar
Koshys ( Jewelbox )
Ryan Dhaba - Bangalore to Tumkur. 20 km away from tumkur. Jammu Dhaba.

Hertz
Whitefield - GE Campus
Hotel Samarkund
Renedevous - 80ft
Chandni Chow
Mast Kaladnar
Dal Roti
Kuch Bhi
The Village
Byucha
Golconda


Reise didi

Die Reise mit Didi.

Wir haben  in Hostel Pension übernachtet. Das Hotel war direkt in Füssen.
Über www.housela.de bekommt man die nötige Information.


Schwarz Wald

Nenstadt
Freiburg
Freundenstadt


www.hapagfly.com
www.ryanair.com
www.airberlin.com
www.skyeurope.com


delhi to STR : 608,39

delhi to FRA : 533,08

mum to fra : 569

mum to str : 597 ( TA )

kol nach STR : 735,81

kol nach FRA : 559,39 ( AI )


Reise HK

shermaine
martha
artha
cecille
audrey
rekha
simple prasad
kavita kapoor
amit manocha



Stuttgart -> Frankfurt -> Kolkata -> Hyderabad -> Singapore -> Malaysia ( Kuala Lumpur ) -> Indonesia ( Jakara, Bali ) -> Philipines ( Cebu, Boracay, Manila ) -> Mumbai -> Frankfurt. The trip starts mid March and finishes end of April. If anyone friend is on the way, would be excited to meet them. Also suggestion are most welcome. Already did Thailand, Camobdia, Vietnam in my last trip.



Abu Dhabi
Vikas Maheshwari

Kolkata
Aditya Sharma

Hyderabad
Nidhi Jhawar

Delhi
Tyagi, Raheja Atharva,

Viskha ( Indonesia )


----------------

Thailand

Agoda ( www.agoda.com )
Centerof Bangkok
Tram Bus - Phuket
Khason Road

Food :
Pad Tai, Tom Yam, Singha

Wat Pra Kean ( Grand Temple )
Cowboy St.

Mr Ratrea Phaphrom
DOB 12 May 1979 - 15000 Baths.

Prue Watts

Chantaburi
Koh Samed
Take a bus from Ekamai bus terminal and then take a ferry for 45 minutes.

-----------


USA

BakersSquare - Tolles Frühstck
Bahamas Breeze

