---
layout: post
title: "todo"
date: 1970-01-01
---


===== Jekyll =====

Github pages should be named in a particular way. By doing this, the pages are automatically converted into html by using static site generator called jekyll. List of to do

1. name the repository as username.github.io
2. Create a readme
3. Create a index.html
4. Style the content by putting main.css under css folder
5. Link the css under head tag in index.html
6. Create a layout called \default.html inside the \ðefault folder. Now move all the index.html content into the default.html. 
7. Maintain a specific directory structure
8. Create a .gitignore and place \_site in the file. This is because \_site is generated directly by jekyll. Hence if we use jekyll locally, this folder will be generated locally and the same would also happen on the server. Therefore, in order to avoid a conflict, this automatically generated folder should not be commited.
9. page title is automatically imported from header of the page that is being generated. {{ page.title }} is replaced by the title on the page. 
10. Similarily the specific content is automatically replaced in the genearted page by reading the original page contents. The advanted of this is that every page can have the same navigation. So, one writes the navigation once and this is imported on all the pages that has the "front-matter". The individual contents ofcourse is different depending on the page and is replaced by the contents from the individual pages.
11. One can have as many templates / layouts


Jekyll uses a language called Liquid. Liquid has objects, tags and filters. To be able to use the power of conversion, one has to add front matter. Front matter is a snippet of YANML which sits between two tripled-dash lines at the top of a file. 
---
my_number : 5
---

Handling assets in jekyll . Asserts are css, js, images etc

Inline styles like color: red is not the best way. It should be done with classes better known as sass

In the header only css can be included and not scss or sass. This is because, scss or sass are converted into css. Syntax is easy

Blog posts live in a folder called \_posts. The filename for posts have a special format: the publish date, then a title, followed by an extension. 


Jekyll makes managing the website easier because it depends on templates. In Jekyll nomenclature templates are called layouts. A layout is used on all the pages and hence it is
not necessary to edit each and every page and add a specific layout.


Ohne Videosignal werden beide Lautsprecher stummgeschaltet.


--with-heic
identify --version
display will only show jpg or png files and not heic. If successfully build then display will also show heic files


Virtual box. Just have to install the virtualbox guest OS additions. This can be done by mounting the virtual box guest additions ( it will be automatically downloaded to ~/.config ) and then once
insrerted as virutal cd rom, it can be acccessed from the guest os

VBoxManage modifyhd OldDisk.vdi –-resize 30000

convert fat to ntfs using windows
convert e: /fs:ntfs



noisy measurerements from optical flow algorithm. 
generate non observable states like velocity. radar returns range values and hence range is observable.
The input measurement for kalman filter is for example position. The non observable state here is hence the velocity. The velocity is obtained
by differentiating the position, but which is also noisy. Hence there are two noises - measurement noise and the process noise ( converting a measurement into 
an observable state )






I had the same issue but managed to solve it. As far as I can see, the real problem is caused by the failed downloads:

Download failed: 1;"unsupported protocol"

I believe that in my case this occured because my cmake version had no HTTPS support. To fix this, you have to install or build cmake with HTTPS support. In my case the easiest way was to build cmake from sources against system's own curl (which has HTTPS support):

wget --no-check-certificate https://cmake.org/files/v3.9/cmake-3.9.0.tar.gz
tar -zxvf cmake-3.9.0.tar.gz
cd cmake-3.9.0
# need to build against system curl to get https support
# -> install devel packages
yum -y install curl-devel zlib-devel
./bootstrap --system-curl
make && make install

I think that opencv-contrib's cmake should fail with a better error message if there's no HTTPS support.


cmake_options="-DCMAKE_BOOTSTRAP=1 -DCMAKE_USE_OPENSSL=ON"


workstation proessional quadro, 16GB and 300Gbps
gaming geforce gtx, 8GB and 10Gbps

https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-gpus
https://cpu.userbenchmark.com/Compare/Intel-Core-i7-7700HQ-vs-Intel-Core-i7-8750H/m211019vsm470418


Auch unterstützt M.2 neue Protokolle zur Datenübertragung wie NVMe (Non-volatile Memory Express), die eine deutlich gesteigerte Performance gegenüber AHCI bieten.

https://gpu.userbenchmark.com/Software

85622


cx0004ng
cx0317ng

====== Algorithm ======


non maxima suppression
non linear minimization
non linear optimization
global optimization

energy optimization
energy minimization


VIRES

Writing -
Write in Binary file

Read Binary file
WritePositionFile
ReadPositionFile
Calculate Region of Interest and COG
Validate

Reading - 

ReadBinaryFile
WritePositionFile
ReadPositionFile
Calculate Region of Interest and COG
Validate

Proceed to Evaluation


CPP

Writing -
Write in Binary file

Read Binary file
WritePositionFile
ReadPositionFile
Calculate Region of Interest and COG
Validate

Reading - 

ReadBinaryFile
WritePositionFile
ReadPositionFile
Calculate Region of Interest and COG
Validate

Proceed to Evaluation





However, in most 3d applications, each different type of coordinate system is defined with respect to a master coordinate system called the world coordinate system.
The most important concepts to remember from that chapter are that points' coordinates relate to a coordinate system, a multitude of coordinate systems can be defined, and that points have unique coordinates in each of these coordinate systems.
The vector's length is sometimes also called norm or magnitude. Not to be confused with normalize, that means making the length of the vector equal to 1. L2 and L1 norm are two types of vector length.  

The neurons only fire if there is a change in your visual stimulus. We realized this principle could be really useful for a 3D scanning system."

Single Shot method. Laser scanning method.
Motion Contrast 3D.
Depth sensor is a combination of Infra red camera and infra red camera ( sensor ).
libfreenect

Kinect V2 has a time of flight for the ir projectors. Kinect v1 has a pattern

Subsurface scattering (or SSS), also known as subsurface light transport (SSLT),[1] is a mechanism of light transport in which light penetrates the surface of a translucent object, is scattered by interacting with the material, and exits the surface at a different point. The light will generally penetrate the surface and be reflected a number of times at irregular angles inside the material, before passing back out of the material at an angle other than the angle it would have if it had been reflected directly off the surface. Subsurface scattering is important in 3D computer graphics, being necessary for the realistic rendering of materials such as marble, skin, leaves, wax and milk.

Bumblebee firewire ( the one Dennis has )
https://duo3d.com/product/duo-minilx-lv1

The evaluation model detects occlusion and targets optical flow in this area. It ignores all other areas of optical flow.
How to detect occlusion? And what are the parameters to analyse this?

Stereo is paasive. Lidar is active.

What is the amount of textureless and textured region?

Both ToF and structured light techniques are scannerless, so they can produce dynamic 3D streams, which allow more efficient and reliable 3D indoor scene modeling.

Occlusion modelling for evaluation at discontinuties.
Object Modelling recovers shape of objects and semantic modelling recovers object types.

Registration phase and fusion phase.
Regisration phase - ICP and SLAM
Fusion phase -  Curless and Levoy using signed distance function

Time Complexit increases with adding number of parameters.

how do we penalise the function - 
take the L1 norm of the error
take the L2 norm of the error

mean squared error has the disadvantage of heavily weighting outliers.

Huber Loss
Square Loss
Absolute Loss

Anode enter, Cathode leave the device.

Unbiased estimator - all values are treated equally.
Biased estimator - some values are given more preference than others.

estimator / decision rule

Change in data distribution given rain parameters. That is our data follows some unknown distribution given rain parameters.
But when the rain parameters are not known, then we estimate the rain parameter that maps observed data to values that we hope is close to 
a specific rain parameter. The differece between the estmated rain parameter and the real rain parameter is called bias.

However, if no x {\displaystyle \mathbf {x} } \mathbf {x} satisfies the equation or more than one x {\displaystyle \mathbf {x} } \mathbf {x} does—that is, the solution is not unique—the problem is said to be ill posed.

Tikhonov regularization

Register a parameter / function before start of a program. The method how you register a paramter is called registration method.

In calibration, the IMU and Velodyne registers itself to the program and using this a calibration can be determined between them.
While registering, they need to follow a specific criteria, such as travel 1 m and then send the values at the beginning of travel 
and end of travel - leading to a comparsion between the two travels ( IMU and Velodyne ) and hence a calibration between them.

occluded in kitti means, all pixels that after reprojection does not fall into the canvas.

That being said, points, vectors and matrices are instrumental in the process of making CG images; we will use them extensively in pretty much every lesson.
Linear transformation is transformation of vectors into another way.

Homegenous points are used when it comes to multiply point with matrices.

robust estimation framework,
incremental minimization framework

Lambertian usually modelled for diffuse reflection.
A lambertial surface has an apparent constant brightness because of its matt surface.

Normalized cross correlations and Laplacian correlations

Penalty function - L2 norm

ushort is allowed in FileStorage, otherwise need to overload.

find Epilines first before calculating depth map.

Fundamental matrix, Essential matrix, 

Epipoles, Epiple constraint ( just look for disparity points on this line and not the whole image )
epilines, 

940eca31-3adc-40c8-80cc-88bee9e8196f
seafile-personal

dee0e513-a514-449c-9c2b-ec7c016cc8ed
seafile-work


6687 ticket

To do - calculate gradient image either by partial derviative or convolution.

sLaww4hH

GT - 
Predictive Collision.

Spritzwasser

HDF5 library
gt Depth
gt Optix
gt RGB

Multiframe trajectory and under each trajectory object flow of each object

No, VIRES and no Optical Flow until a functional Predictive Collision works.

Online and offline functions

Mahalanobis distance for robustness of optical flow.
Bird view.

train the first frame flow vector, get the polynomials and use the polynomial coefficients on other images for segmentaation.
check line

isometric ( translation and rotation in one )

rotation and translation ( i.e. pose )

The 3D points in camera coordinates can be projected onto the image plane ( i.e. image coordinate system ) using the intrinsic parameters of the camera ( focal length, optical center etc. ).

    // Compute minimal bounding box
    cv::RotatedRect box = cv::minAreaRect(cv::Mat(points));

    Erosion and Dilation

    imgpoints2, _ = cv2.projectPoints(objpoints[i], rvecs[i], tvecs[i], mtx, dist)

    Other rotation matrices can be obtained from these three using matrix multiplication. For example, the product

    R = R z ( α ) R y ( β ) R x ( γ ) 

represents a rotation whose head, pitch, and roll angles are α, β and γ, respectively. More formally, it is an intrinsic rotation whose Tait–Bryan angles are α, β, γ, about axes z, y, x, respectively


theory

how optical flow works


practical
generation phase

measurement phase

intensity, displacement and object size


sensor -> objects mapping
objct1, object2, object3 

first convert -
objects -> sensor mapping


Notes for presentation - 

Lambertian, 
Vedula ( 2005 ) No Vignetting



HS -  cannot preserve discontinuity of motion estimation and has low accuracy especially for the image sequence, which includes complex structures. Taylor series expansion of the brightness constraint equation. Euler Lagranze equation is used for minimization of energy function of the fractional order optical flow model.

L1 ( Least Absolute Deviations ) = | estimated - observed |
L2 ( Least Squared Errors ) = ( estimated - observed ) ^ 2

Choosing LAD because outliers can be easily ignored, due to the size of the dataset.
The method of least absolute deviations finds applications in many areas, due to its robustness compared to the least squares method. Least absolute deviations is robust in that it is resistant to outliers in the data. This may be helpful in studies where outliers may be safely and effectively ignored. If it is important to pay attention to any and all outliers, the method of least squares is a better choice.

Variance and Standard deviation means, how the data is spread out.



number of tests 	

What factors affect optical flow? Change in illumination, Reflections, Weather, Radial 	or Tangential Displacement, Rigidity of Motion, (Object Dimension, Full Occlusions, Texture and Corners. )


Are there any co-relation betweeen the factors? Does these factor induce any likelihood function in another variable
Can these factors be controlled?

Can the number of tests be reduced by combining the factors?

To which degree do they affect the optical flow algorithms?

Can the factors be quantified?

How does the number of tests increase or decrease?

Does a success factor in one mitigate success in other?
